---
title: "Online Optimization for Real-Time Peer-to-Peer Electricity Market Mechanisms"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2021-09-01-journal3
excerpt: ''
date: 2021-09-01
venue: 'IEEE Transactions on Smart Grid'
#slidesurl: 'https://academicpages.github.io/files/slides3.pdf'
paperurl: 'https://DoctorGuo1993.github.io/files/journal3.pdf'
citation: 'Guo Z, Pinson P, Chen S, et al. Online optimization for real-time peer-to-peer electricity market mechanisms[J]. IEEE Transactions on smart grid, 2021, 12(5): 4151-4163.'
---

Abstract: Owing to the fast deployment of distributed energy resources (DERs) and the further development of demand-side management, small agents in electricity markets are becoming more proactive. This may boost the development of peer-to-peer (P2P) market mechanisms. Meanwhile, since actual load and power generation may substantially deviate from schedules obtained at the day-ahead (forward) market stage, it is needed to rapidly reschedule the trades among agents to maintain power balance through a real-time market mechanism, also in a P2P framework. However, it is technically challenging to develop and operate such P2P market mechanisms in real-time, since they most often involve a heavy computational burden (e.g., based on iterative distributed optimization approaches), while real-time trading demands fast calculation. Our core contribution is hence to describe and analyze a novel online optimization framework to enable the real-time P2P market. It relies on online social welfare maximization using a novel online consensus alternating direction method of multipliers (OC-ADMM) algorithm. The computational complexity is then heavily reduced since only one iteration is performed for each agent at every time step in order to satisfy real-time requirements. We derive a sublinear non-stationary regret upper bound for our algorithm, which implies that social welfare will be maximized in the long run. Simulations based on a number of case studies show that our algorithm has good convergence performance, tracking ability, and high computational efficiency.
